
## Dictionaries and Tuples
Besides lists, Python has two additional data structures that can store multiple objects. These data structures are _dictionaries_ and _tuples_.
### Dictionaries
Dictionaries are made up of key: value pairs. In Python, lists are organized and accessed based on position. Dictionaries in Python are organized and accessed using keys and values. The location of a pair of keys and values stored in a Python dictionary is irrelevant.

Dictionaries are defined in Python with curly braces ```{  }```. Commas separate the key-value pairs that make up the dictionary. Each key-value pair is related by a colon ``` : ```.

Let's store the ages of two people in a dictionary. The two people are ```Gabby``` and ```Maelle```. ```Gabby``` is ```8``` and ```Maelle``` is ```5```. Note the name ```Gabby``` is a string and the age ```8``` is an integer.

```python
>>> age_dict = {"Gabby": 8 , "Maelle": 5}
>>> type(age_dict)
dict
```

The values stored in a dictionary are called and assigned using the following syntax:

```python
dict_name[key] = value
```

```python
>>> age_dict = {"Gabby": 8 , "Maelle": 5}
>>> age_dict["Gabby"]
8
```

We can add a new person to our ```age_dict``` with the following command:

```python
>>> age_dict = {"Gabby": 8 , "Maelle": 5}

>>> age_dict["Peter"]= 40
>>> age_dict
{'Gabby': 8, 'Maelle': 5, 'Peter': 40}
```

Dictionaries can be converted to lists by calling the ```.items()```, ```.keys()```, and ```.values()``` methods. 

```python
>>> age_dict = {"Gabby": 8 , "Maelle": 5}

>>> whole_list = list(age_dict.items())
>>> whole_list
[('Gabby', 8), ('Maelle', 5)]

>>> name_list = list(age_dict.keys())
>>> name_list
['Gabby', 'Maelle']

>>> age_list = list(age_dict.values())
>>> age_list
[8, 5]
```

Items can be removed from dictionaries by calling the ```.pop()``` method. The dictionary key (and that key's associated value) supplied to the ```.pop()``` method is removed from the dictionary.

```python
>>> age_dict = {"Gabby": 8 , "Maelle": 5}
>>> age_dict.pop("Gabby")
>>> age_dict
{'Maelle': 5}
```
### Tuples
Tuples are immutable lists. Elements of a list can be modified, but elements in a tuple can only be accessed, not modified. The name _tuple_ does not mean that only two values can be stored in this data structure.

Tuples are defined in Python by enclosing elements in parenthesis ```( )``` and separating elements with commas. The command below creates a tuple containing the numbers ```3```, ```4```, and ```5```.


```python
>>> t_var = (3,4,5)
>>> t_var
(3, 4, 5)
```

Note how the elements of a list can be modified: 

```python
>>> l_var = [3,4,5]  # a list
>>> l_var[0]= 8
>>> l_var
[8, 4, 5]
```

The elements of a tuple can not be modified. If you try to assign a new value to one of the elements in a tuple, an error is returned.

```python
>>> t_var = (3,4,5)  # a tuple
>>> t_var[0]= 8
>>> t_var

TypeError: 'tuple' object does not support item assignment
```

To create a tuple that just contains one numerical value, the number must be followed by a comma. Without a comma, the variable is defined as a number.

```python
>>> num = (5)
>>> type(num)
int
```

When a comma is included after the number, the variable is defined as a tuple.

```python
>>> t_var = (5,)
>>> type(t_var)
tuple
```
 

