
## Numeric Data Types
Python has many useful built-in data types. Python variables can store different types of data. A variable's data type is created dynamically, without the need to explicitly define a data type when the variable is created.

It is useful for problem solvers to understand a couple of Python's core data types in order to write well-constructed code. 

### A review of variable assignment in Python

Remember from the previous chapter that variables in Python are defined with the assignment operator, the equals sign ```=```. Recall that to define a variable in Python, the variable name is written first, then the assignment operator ```=``` followed by a value or expression.

The general syntax to assign a value to variable name is below:

```text
variable_name = value
````

Variable names in Python must adhere to the following rules:

 * variable names must start with a letter
 * variable names can only contain letters, numbers and the underscore character ```_```
 * variable names can not contain spaces
 * variable names are not enclosed in quotes or brackets


Below is a discussion of a few different built-in data types in Python.
### Integers

_Integers_ are one of the Python data types. An integer is a whole number, negative, positive or zero. In Python, integer variables are defined by simply assigning a whole number to a variable. Python's ```type()``` function can be used to determine the data type of a variable.

```python
>>> a = 5
>>> type(a)
<class 'int'>
```

The output ```<class 'int'>``` indicates the variable ```a``` is an integer. Integers can be negative or zero.

```python
>>> b = -2
>>> type(b)
<class 'int'>
>>> z = 0
>>> type(z)
<class 'int'>
```
### Floating Point Numbers

Floating point numbers or _floats_ are another Python data type. Floats are decimals, positive, negative and zero. Floats can also be numbers in scientific notation which contain exponents.

Both a lower case ```e``` or an upper case ```E``` can be used to define floats in scientific notation. In Python, a float can be defined using a decimal point ```.``` when a variable is assigned.

```python
>>> c = 6.2
>>> type(c)
<class 'float'>
>>> d = -0.03
>>> type(d)
<class 'float'>
>>> Na = 6.02e23
>>> Na
6.02e+23
>>> type(Na)
<class 'float'>
```

To define a variable as a float instead of an integer, even if the variable is assigned a whole number, a trailing decimal point ```.``` is used. Note the difference when a decimal point ```.``` comes after a whole number:

```python
>>> g = 5
>>> type(g)
<class 'int'>
>>> g = 5.
>>> type(g)
<class 'float'>
```
### Complex Numbers

Another useful numeric data type for problem solvers is the _complex number_ data type. A complex number is defined in Python using a real component ```+``` an imaginary component ```j```. The letter ```j``` must be used to denote the imaginary component. Using the letter ```i``` to define a complex number in Python returns an error. Note how imaginary numbers add to integers and floats.

```python
>>> comp = 4 + 2j
>>> type(comp)
<class 'complex'>

>>> comp2 = 4 + 2i
              ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```
<br>

```python
>>> intgr = 3
>>> type(intgr)
<class 'int'>

>>> comp_sum = comp + intgr
>>> print(comp_sum)
(7+2j)

>>> flt = 2.1
>>> comp_sum = comp + flt
>>> print(comp_sum)
(6.1+2j)
```
 

